hi this is presto Walker in this video
I'm going to teach you a cool trick so
you could quickly square any number
that's in the 50s in your head let's
start out with 57 squared the trick
involves two steps the first step is to
square the units digit in 57 squared the
unit's digit is 7 and squaring 7 gets us
49 the second step is to take 25 plus
the unit's digit
so we're going to take 25 plus 7 to get
32 and that's our answer
57 squared is 3249 for another example
54 squared we want to square the unit's
digit of 4 to get 16 then we're going to
take 25 plus 4 to get 29 and our answer
is 2916 for 53 squared the unit's digit
is 3 and when we square that we have to
make one adjustment which is we want to
write it as a two-digit number so 3
squared is 9 we need to write that as 0
9 then we go ahead and do the second
step which is 25 plus 3 and that gives
us 28 so when you're doing this trick
always remember that when you square the
unit's digit you need to make it a two
digit number I'm going to briefly
explain why this trick works when you
square a number in the 50s algebraically
that's the same as taking the quantity
50 plus x squared where X is a digit
from 0 to 9 if we expand this out we end
up with one term of 2500 the middle term
is 100 X and the remaining term is x
squared so we can rewrite the x squared
and we can take the terms that are
highlighted in blue and factor out a
hundred to get a hundred times 25 plus X
and this is where the formula comes from
the x squared is
where we get the rule to square the
unit's digit and the 25 plus X is where
we get the rule to take 25 plus the
unit's digit I hope you liked this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on my blog bind your decisions
on Twitter at pressure Locker and you
can get my books at Amazon